Bangkok/Kuala Lumpur/Geneva, 13 September 2024 – Super Typhoon Yagi, one of the strongest storms to hit Vietnam in three decades, has left a trail of destruction and continues to threaten the lives of millions across northern and central parts of the country. 
After passing through China’s Hainan Island, Tropical Cyclone Yagi intensified into a super typhoon, making landfall in Quang Ninh province and Hai Phong City in Vietnam at 13:45 local time on 7 September 2024.
With torrential downpours and powerful winds exceeding 200 kilometres per hour, the super typhoon has forced more than 50,000 people to evacuate their homes. It triggered widespread flooding, flash floods, and landslides, causing severe damage to roads, bridges, and buildings, uprooting trees, and disrupting electrical and telecommunication networks. The affected areas are experiencing prolonged power outages, communication loss, and water supply disruptions.
According to authorities, nearly 190,000 homes have been flooded, damaged or destroyed, with at least 325 people reported dead or missing, and an estimated 1.6 million people affected overall. These numbers are expected to rise as damage assessment continues, while the risk of further flooding and landslides remains high throughout the affected regions.
Immediately after initial impact of the typhoon, the Vietnam Red Cross Society organised the mobilisation of relief items, such as food, medicine, and cash distribution worth up to VND 5.5 billion (190,000 CHF) to support affected communities. Red Cross staff and volunteers have been deployed to assist with debris cleanup and to provide psychological first aid, and disaster response teams are also continuing to collaborate closely with the authorities to conduct damage and needs assessments in the affected areas. 
Local Red Cross branches are implementing measures such as early warning communication, supporting the reinforcement of houses, providing assistance at temporary evacuation and shelter points, and closely monitoring storm updates so they’re on standby for emergency response.
Despite having now weakened into a tropical depression, Yagi continues to cause extended periods of heavy rainfall, leading to ongoing flooding and landslides across 26 provinces, including the capital city of Hanoi.
Mr. Nguyen Hai Anh, Vice President and Secretary General of the Vietnam Red Cross Society, said:
“Nearly 19 million people are living in the affected provinces. We are deeply concerned about their health, well-being, and ability to cope with the impact and consequences of Super Typhoon Yagi, especially those in vulnerable conditions, such as the elderly and children.
“The Vietnam Red Cross Society has been working closely with relevant authorities and organisations to support the national and local response efforts. We have launched resource mobilisation campaigns in a spirit of solidarity to support the affected populations in overcoming this deadly tragedy.”
Kathryn Clarkson, International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) Head of Country Cluster Delegation in Bangkok covering Thailand, Cambodia, Lao PDR and Vietnam, said: 
“This extreme and prolonged weather event is continuing to have a widespread impact on many local communities, including in areas where we have rarely seen this kind of disaster occur previously. People’s resilience is being stretched, and there is an urgent need to provide both immediate relief and recovery support to the affected populations.
“IFRC is working closely with the Vietnam Red Cross Society to mobilise international support to address the growing and evolving needs of the affected populations, especially with health services, water and sanitation as well as restoration of shelter and livelihoods.”